Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you an adventure film from
2021, titled Jungle Cruise.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
The movie starts with the Amazonian legend
of the Tears of the Moon, a tree holding magical
powers of healing and removing any curse within
a single petal of its bloom.
Many had traveled great distances to find
it, but the most notable one is the conquistador
Aguirre, who was determined to possess its
power.
Aguirre and his men fought the jungle that
protected the magical tree until he was found
by the tree's true guardians and nursed back
to health by them.
The moment he recovered, Aguirre demanded
they give him the arrowhead which is the key
to finding the tree.
The guardians refused so the conquistador
attacked them, but all he and his men got
was a curse never to leave the sight of the
Amazonian river again.
MacGregor can be seen retelling the legend
of the tree, showing its possible location
on a map.
He is presenting the ideas about the arrowhead
to a society that holds it among other artifacts,
and requesting access to it so that he could
launch an expedition, hoping to find the Tears
of the Moon.
His sister Lily, the real author of his speech,
can be seen up in the rafters mouthing the
words.
When she realizes that her brother won't convince
the society to give them the arrowhead, Lily
takes matters into her own hands, while MacGregor
stalls them.
She enters the hallways of the society with
a map to take her to the room with the artifacts
when she bumps into Prince Joachim.
The man thinks that she's merely looking for
the assistant's room so he lets her pass.
Lily breaks into the room and changes into
some male clothes to look more inconspicuous.
She manages to find the crate containing the
artifact and once she opens it and steals
the arrowhead, Joachim is led into the room
by one of the society members.
He too is looking for the arrowhead, so when
they open the crate and see the artifact missing,
Joachim turns and sees Lily trying to escape
the room.
He tells the men to stop her, but she manages
to fight them all off in daring and creative
ways, showing both her physical skill and
intelligence.
In the end, it's Joachim that stops her, sending
Lily flinging on library steps out of the
window.
She holds on tight as Joachim loosens the
string on the steps, sending Lily hurling
even farther towards the street.
He asks her to give him the arrowhead if she
wants his help so Lily throws Joachim the
box then drops into the bus her brother managed
to stop for her benefit.
Joachim opens it only to find the arrowhead
gone.
The society member tries to apologize to him
for losing the artifact but the prince, after
learning who Lily is, just kills all of them.
Later, Lily and MacGregor are packing to go
on their expedition to the Amazonian river
and find the tree, with the glorified notion
that it will help them cure the world of disease.
With the entire route planned out, all they
have left is to find is a skipper to take
them through the river.
Cut to the Amazon sometime later, in the middle
of a cruise taking a group of English tourists
along the river.
The skipper of this particularly banged-up
vessel is Frank, a grifter who has designed
his entire cruise on the premise that everything
in the Amazon can kill you, just to swindle
a little bit more money from his passengers.
He employs all kinds of tricks and schemes
to convince the tourists they're having a
risky adventure, even paying a tribe to help
him lie.
Meanwhile, Lily and MacGregor arrive in the
little town by the Amazon where Frank has
set up his operation.
They are also being followed by the prince's
men.
She's excited to find a skipper for their
travel and runs out to find Nilo, who seems
to own most of the boats in the dock.
Nilo, on the other hand, goes to have a talk
with Frank, who's just docked his boat and
asks him to pay what he owes him.
When Frank can't pay everything, Nilo takes
his engine and locks it away, saying that
he'll give it back when he pays in full.
MacGregor and Lily separate to find Nilo,
when she finds herself standing in front of
his office, talking to Frank instead.
He has broken into the office to steal the
key to retrieve his engine and pretends to
be Nilo so Lily doesn't suspect he's up to
no good.
When Lily explains that she needs someone
to take her downriver and that she has a lot
of money, Frank opens the door.
She storms inside and immediately tells him
where she needs to go.
Frank still pretends to be Nilo as he tells
Lily that the place she wants to go to is
dangerous, and asks her where she got the
map.
She takes pride in it, saying that it was
drawn by Aguirre's cartographer some 400 years
ago and that it belonged to her father who
used to tell her about the legend.
Frank laughs at her and proposes a different
kind of adventure.
Lily notices that he was trying to get into
the box with the key to his boat so she unlocks
it for him.
That convinces Frank to take the job so he
leads Lily into the restaurant to seal the
deal.
As they haggle about the price for the journey,
MacGregor shows up with the real Nilo.
Lily says goodbye to Frank when she realizes
that she's been swindled and he's able to
see the arrowhead hanging around her neck.
After seeing it, he's determined to get her
as a client and keeps dropping his price,
saying he's the only one that can get her
there.
Suddenly, a jaguar walks into the restaurant
and while Nilo runs to hide, Frank protects
MacGregor and Lily from the animal, struggling
with it and eventually outsmarting it with
a steak.
The way Frank deals with the jaguar convinces
Lily that he's the right man for the job and
she hires him on the spot.
Later, Frank picks up the siblings from the
dock, but another problem occurs.
Lily gets kidnapped by some locals for Joachim
and Frank sails the boat out with MacGregor
to escape Nilo's men.
Fortunately, Lily manages to escape her captors
fast through an elaborate run around the dock
and is finally picked up by Frank and MacGregor
in the boat.
As they sail away, Joachim is informed that
Lily wasn't captured so he orders his men
to surface the submarine.
He's adamant about getting to the tree because
he thinks it will aid Germany in WW1.
First, Joachim shoots at the boat, but when
that fails he aims a torpedo on them.
With a slick maneuver, Frank saves the boat
from the torpedo as the submarine's propeller
gets caught in a rope and it's hurled toward
the dock, destroying all of Nilo's ships.
Frank and his passengers are finally on their
way toward the magical tree.
While MacGregor isn't quite enjoying his time
in the scorching Sun, Lily loves every moment
of being on the river.
She gets excited at every creature roaming
around the boat and films all she can with
her handheld camera, including the burly Frank.
He's a curious man so he has a go at the camera
himself, revealing a possible attraction toward
Lily.
She doesn't give him much time to relax, however,
and demands that he direct the ship toward
a more dangerous, but faster, route.
Frank gives her a hard time about it, though
since Lily insists, he decides to let her
have her way.
Later, Frank anchors the boat for the night
so the engine can rest.
MacGregor turns in for the night, as Frank
and Lily spend a little bit more time talking
on the deck and warming up to each other.
However, MacGregor has an unfortunate encounter
with Proxima, leading the big cat right up
to the deck.
Frank tells Proxima to heel and she starts
licking MacGregor's face.
Lily gets really upset with Frank when she
realizes that she is Frank's pet and any trust
that she might have gained in him, dissipates
momentarily.
Meanwhile, Joachim changes course as well
intending to find the cursed conquistadors
to help him find the way to the tree.
When he arrives at the place where Aguirre
and his men were captured with the curse,
Joachim approaches the conquistador's body
and drops a little bit of river water on it
to awaken it.
Two snakes appear out of the body that are
a part of Aguirre and through them, he makes
a deal with Joachim to find the arrowhead,
so they can both get what they're after.
The snake swears on the deal and Joachim releases
the conquistador and his men from their prison.
The next day, Frank and his passengers finally
arrive at the rapids.
As they move through the unsafe waters, Frank
manages to keep them afloat and Lily insists
they continue on that route, no matter how
frightened and awful she feels.
The boat almost makes an insane drop during
their journey in the rapids, terrifying all
of them, but Frank successfully maneuvers
it back to calmer waters.
Even though the boat is settled, none of its
passengers are, so they all vomit on the side
of its bow, including Proxima.
Later, as Frank and MacGregor gather trees
to fuel the engine, the brother confesses
his reasons to join Lily's expedition, even
though he isn't much of an adventurer like
her.
After he realized that he was gay, Lily was
the only one in their family to stay at his
side and for that, he would follow her anywhere.
Meanwhile, Lily breaks into Frank's quarters
and makes a curious discovery.
When Frank gets back to the boat, Lily confronts
him about all the materials and maps she's
found on the tree in his cabin, thinking that
he's after it himself.
Frank tells her that it might have been the
case before, but not for a long time.
He says that it was also his reason to come
to the Amazon, searching for its magic, though
he was never able to find it.
Suddenly, the boat is ambushed by one of Frank's
paid tribes and they carry on the rouse for
Lily and MacGregor for a little bit.
Frank plays translator between Lily and the
chief until Lily takes things too far and
the chief decides to stop the charade.
Lily and MacGregor aren't too understanding
about it when they find out.
Sometime later, Lily asks the chief to help
her translate the markings on the arrowhead.
She tells Lily the markings mean that the
one seeking the Tear of the Moon must turn
water into stone and mend a broken heart.
The tree must be under the rare crying Moon
to produce the special bloom, which according
to the woman will happen in two days.
She says that to get to the tree one must
follow the serpent that bites its own tail,
an image that Lily remembers seeing on the
map and promptly finds there.
Lily thinks that she can get to the place
with a canoe and without Frank so she pays
him the rest of the money.
That night, the village gets attacked by the
cursed conquistadors looking for the arrowhead.
Frank, MacGregor, and Lily each fight a different
conquistador.
One of them manages to snatch the arrowhead
from Lily's neck and give it to Aguirre.
The conquistador tries to flee, but Frank
stops him and struggles with him for the artifact.
Aguirre stabs him and before he falls down
through the trees, he steals the arrowhead
back and throws it to Lily.
The chief saves Lily and MacGregor, getting
them safely down and telling Lily to run by
getting out of sight of the river where the
conquistadors can't reach her.
As Lily runs, Aguirre's snakes catch up to
her and grab her.
But before he can do anything to Lily, the
jungle drags him and his men back to the river.
As the conquistadors gather themselves up,
they realize they need Joachim's help to get
to Lily.
One of Aguirre's men sends his bees to the
prince to inform him of their situation.
The following morning, Lily finds Frank, happily
thinking that he's alive and well.
When the chief and MacGregor show up, he notices
a dagger protruding out of Frank's back.
Frank has no choice but to finally tell them
the truth that he was actually one of Aguirre's
conquistadors.
Before he can explain anything further, Lily
has to pull out the dagger from his chest.
When she takes it out without hurting Frank
one bit, MacGregor faints after witnessing
it.
Lily later wakes him up to say goodbye, since
she will be traveling the rest of the journey
with Frank alone.
Meanwhile, the cursed conquistador's bees
arrive at Joachim's submarine and he welcomes
them inside.
One of the bees shows him the location of
the arrowhead on the map and they manage to
have an entire conversation to the amazement
of his subordinates.
Back at the boat and on their journey, Frank
and Lily talk about his life during the last
400 years.
He tells her that he was Aguirre's best friend
so he set off to the Amazon with him to find
the Tear of the Moon because Aguirre needed
to save his daughter from dying.
He worked as his cartographer, in fact, he
was the one that drew her map of the river.
Frank followed Aguirre to the depths of the
jungle to find the magical tree petal, but
once he saw what the conquistador was ready
to do to the tribe that healed them, he realized
he couldn't be a part of it.
Frank stopped him from killing the chieftain’s
daughter who managed to escape with the arrowhead
while the chieftain cursed all of them with
his last breath.
As the years went by, Frank and Aguirre fought
over and over again, until he trapped him
and his men in a cave where the jungle couldn't
return them to the river.
For 300 years the jungle ravaged their bodies,
turning them into the monster they are.
Lily listens to him carefully and asks him
what he did for those last 3 centuries.
Frank tells her that he built the town where
she found him, gaining and losing friends
on the way when he decided to search for the
Tears of the Moon.
He built his boat and searched the entire
river, finding nothing, until one day he just
stopped looking and began giving cruises to
tourists.
Over the years he kept finding strays, as
he calls his big cats and kept taking care
of them one after the other, ergo the name
Proxima which means next.
Meanwhile, prince Joachim catches up to MacGregor
with his submarine.
He takes MacGregor in and blackmails him into
sharing the location of the Tear of the Moon.
MacGregor shows him the location on the map
and Joachim kills the conquistador's bees
so they don't share the information with their
master.
As Frank and Lily are sailing towards the
same location, he tells her what will happen
when he finally gets a petal from the tree.
He says he would have two choices and he will
take the one that will finally grant him some
rest.
The next day, they arrive at an impasse at
the river and Lily thinks that they have reached
the point where water turns to stone as the
arrowhead stated.
Frank dives into the river and finds an ancient
chamber with a lever, but dives back up to
tell Lily that she will have the misfortune
to open it because he can't fit inside.
She freaks out a little since she can't swim,
but eventually Frank convinces her that there
is no other way and they dive in together.
Once she's inside the chamber, she pushes
a lever that closes the door and when she
panics, Frank gives her a little boost of
air by kissing her.
Lily manages to push the ancient lever down,
while Frank is swarmed by piranhas.
The water begins to run out of the cove, but
Lily has no way of getting out until the water
is fully drained.
When Frank finally gets to her, thinking that
she's drowned, she awakens and slaps him for
leaving her under.
As they get dressed they realize that they've
found the location of the tree, but there's
one more problem revealed when the rest of
the water drains from the cove.
Joachim is there as well with MacGregor as
his prisoner.
To make matters even worse, one of the conquistador's
bees has been following them, goes back to
report the location to the cursed men.
Joachim takes the arrowhead from Lily and
makes Frank take them inside the cave with
the tree on his steamboat.
When they reach the tree, it looks like it's
been dead for centuries.
Joachim tells Lily to make the tree bloom
because she's one of the only people that
know how to do it, but when she refuses, Frank
says that he'll do that for a single petal
in return.
Joachim agrees to the terms but keeps MacGregor
as collateral.
Frank gets the arrowhead from the prince and
tries to find a way to open the tree.
When he doesn't succeed at once, Joachim makes
Lily help him in return for Frank's petal.
The two of them working in unison, soon discover
that the arrowhead isn't that at all, but
in fact a heart.
According to the instructions they break it
apart and find a magical piece inside.
They place that piece on one side of the relief
and the mended heart on the other.
The magic of the tree is instantly visible
as it begins to bloom in the light of the
Moon.
Once the tree has fully bloomed, Lily shoots
Frank, sending him falling back to the bottom
of the cave.
Joachim sends his men to pluck the petals
from the tree before the crying Moon sets.
In the meantime, Frank saves MacGregor from
Joachim's men and they take back the ship
with a little help from Proxima.
Lily jumps up on the tree to get a petal,
but she barely manages to run fast enough
to grab one as the Moon sets.
When she finally plucks one Tear, she falls
down the tree and Joachim is there to blackmail
her again, the petal for her brother's life
and hers.
Suddenly, the tree begins to fall apart so
she drops the petal and grabs onto the prince,
saving herself.
Frank manages to grab hold of the petal as
well.
The last thing before the adventure is over,
the conquistadors arrive at the tree as well
and kill the prince.
They go after Lily as well, but Frank shows
them the petal and gets them to follow him.
He leaves MacGregor on the surface and makes
Proxima stay with him to protect both him
and Lily.
She drops from the tree next to her brother
and they see Frank aiming to crash the boat
into the ancient monument.
The conquistadors fight Frank for the petal,
but he manages to fight all of them off as
they come after him.
Lastly, he battles with Aguirre, who asks
him for the petal once more, but it is revealed
to be in MacGregor's possession, so he can
give it to Lily.
The boat crashes into the ancient monument
and stops the river water from coming inside
the cave.
The jungle takes the conquistadors, including
Frank, and turns them back into stone because
it can't return them to the river.
Lily arrives at the spot and decides to give
the petal to Frank so it will break his curse,
leaving her dreams about helping humanity
asunder.
When nothing happens, she and her brother
leave, with Proxima waiting patiently before
her master.
Lily hears her roars as Frank comes back to
life and runs into his arms.
Suddenly, they see that the magical tree has
gifted them one more petal to take from it.
Later, they return to the town and give Nilo
the tiny raft they were able to use to sail
back.
And in the final image of the film, they have
all returned to London together.
Lily and Frank can be seen driving through
London in a car, with Proxima in the back.